Here's my story

I had a few symptoms of unhealthy state of being. I felt bloated all the time. I was not overweight, but I always had a disproportionately big stomach compared to the rest of the body. It was affecting my posture, as I would scooch down my back with my stomach protruding. Deep down, I wanted to stand straight, with my stomach in, tailbone out, head straight, gaze forward. It's a life long habit of standing. I had a varying degree of a sudden craving that affected my mood. Here I'm writing about my mood, but it was a tough struggle to find a light in the darkness, trying to put into words how my body feels and bring mind into the discussion. I felt unstable all the time. My body was not stable so my mental was not stable. I was afraid of my craving for food. It wakes up the ancient survival instinct and (increase my cortisol level) my focus is on to food: how can I make sure I'm not hungry at all time? I wanted to get on with the projects that are waiting for me, but then I must be locked in the room with a mountainous amount of food so that the craving doesn't disrupt my focus. It was fearful and it was draining. It was scary and it was disruptive. Living was not easy even when you don't live in Yemen. When you are given so much, capable of doing many, there's a hook in your back that pull you backwards. Universe is not there with you 100%. You're maybe lacking 2%, or 20% but you're not complete. And you know that it can be done. That's the spirit that led me to search for answer. I had a faith that it can be complete. You can have a complete core of being.

Another thing I had was a brain fog attack. I had a brain fog, and body snoozing layer of warm weights. It's like weighted thin blanket that touches your neck and shoulder, merges with your skin, and weighing your cells down. I call it inflammation. My body warms up, and instead of energy moving upwards from my feet to head, energy goes downwards from my head to feet. I used to have the attack in the morning upon waking up, early morning, and late afternoon around 3 or 4pm. 

I adopted some healthy habits, I let go of bad habits. I saw it a complete day mission. Whatever you do in a day completes your well-being in everyday tasks. So first thing I did was changing my diet. I was vegetarian for almost 13 years. However I was not a fresh vegetable eater, nor clean eater. I sometimes ate a questionable leftover, overcooked or burned vegetables, preferred flavored vegetable with different stimulating sauces. I indulged lots of refined grains. I didn't eat refined meat and ate some refined sugar that are in baked goods. I didn't eat much dairy food. The biggest difference with my new diet is eating fresher food. I trained my taste buds to appreciate the fresh taste of carrots, bell peppers, lightly cooked cabbages, kale, chard. And I stopped eating refined grains. It's not about eating whole wheat bread instead of white one. No refined grains mean no processed grains. All grains are seeds, so as beans. So basically eat steamed grains or grated grains but not grated and baked. Limiting grain intake settled my disproportionate belly. Instead, I ate lots of fat so that I didn't have to feel bloated all the time. I ate local organic raw vegetables for a blink second of time, believing those uncooked food are rich in micronutrients and full of energy so eating little will settle my hunger. It's the communication between your hunger, your gut, and the energy you put in. It's not a spacial calculation of how 'full' your stomach is, but it's about giving the energy and nutrients that your body needs. And your gut tells you on behalf of the body. I calmed my gut flora. In fact, I bulldozed it and curated different species of gut bacteria. I'm a lot lighter in weight, eat a lot less but cleaner food, have more energy moving around, clearer mind, less inflammation, more motivation, spend less time cooking and less time thinking about food and fear of bouncing craving feeling, a feeling of not enough and feeling of incomplete.

My mind is clear, but not 100%. I decided to address vitamin D deficiency that I was diagnosed a year ago. No medical folks around me including my pcp and Mike, so I forgot right away. I brought it up recently and Mike was adamant that I need to take the supplement. I grabbed 2000IU bottle and took one and Wow. I can tell the passage between my hip and my head is washed clean. Energy flows . It's like a wearing a jacket made of a thin glow of light that moves around constantly. I was not able to sleep as deep, or so as I phrase it, but waking up refreshed. 

I have a several other things I tried, worked and now became a part of my daily routine. They are oil pulling, walking within 30min upon waking up, brush teeth upon first thing in the morning, drinking cleansing soup, a couple vinyasa yoga poses and stretching. My mood is stabilized and I am a lot happier, healthier. 
