# Pregnant!

Here's great news from HYMI household..
We've been married for 6years and four month. I don't know whether we can say we've been trying to have a baby or not though we wanted to have a baby.
We were not stressed about being conceived would describe the best.
I'd like to document our journey to prenatal parenthood (so many makeup words..).

## Before I was pregnant..
I just had a vague fear of giving birth, that it comes with the pain you've never experienced..
Now I know better, massive pain in very short period of time is easy to cater feelings. The longer period of much more arduous days are ahead when baby is born..


## Now that I am pregnant
## 5th week
A highschool friend of mine from Philadelphia visited us in Eugene on January 8th for a week. I drove to Portland to pick her up and I felt kind of tired. I remembered my little fatigue because I was very in tune with my body and energy level. I made a mental note.
The following day we went to the beautiful tamolich falls. The hike to the fall is mostly flat and relatively short (3miles one way). Though the trail had patches of snow, I thought it'd be the easy one. To my surprise, I felt my body was not as light as my normal hiking. I had a strong suspicion. I didn't feel sick, I just felt heavy. I was not feeling out of energy, but feeling I was not able to use energy I have 100% for some reason.

I decided to give a +5 days of my scheduled period start. It was then just 2~3 days late. We bought a test kit.

## 6th week
The strong fatigue that I felt on last Tuesday went away(little I knew, temporirily), but I was not starting to look as usual. My hair felt bristle, skin dried. On Saturday night, I did urine test. There was strong two lines! Mike ran in asking how things went and he couldn't believe that we're pregnant. 

## 7th ~9th week
The weeks I was reminded that I'm pregnant 24/7.. on the bed
Horrible all day sickness! and unbelievable fatigue. I couldn't stand more than 1 min without panting and feeling like I don't have any muscle in my body. I like to compare this feeling to all night vomitting and diarrhea after food poisoning, and flu. I couldn't walk around, stand. I couldn't read, eat, drink and looking at any size of screen... I appreciate that I had/have this experience so that I can better emphasize with the sick people. I'd just sit on the couch and read cookbooks to discover food that I can tolerate. I played violin and ukulele. That was the only things I could do and feeling not in pain(pain of not being able to control my body!). I could move my fingers and strum cords and that was very comforting. Other times I played woodblock puzzle called Katamino that Mike got for me as a christmas present three years ago. At lease I knew it might last only for first trimester. It might not be over tomorrow, but it's known that progesterone will ease out..


## 10th week
Worst days of fatigue may have been gone, as now I can stand and walk around for more than 5min and not wanting to sit down. Nausea persist, not able to eat easily because of the stomach pain my brain remembers, and after eating anything, I suffered through indigestion. I was able to eat only certain things. I don't want to eat anything that has added fructose in it as a sweetner. Fr added sugar being neutral but not particularly appetizing, HFCS or stevia would just make me feel ... angry. I couldn't eat greasy and heavily spiced and/or flavored food, which excludes Indian and Thai food at the restaurant. I wanted homemade food that's mild. This is the time when Mike came in as a shining star chef. Mike made me different kinds of Korean banchans I craved: gamja jorim, sigeumchi muchim, tuna kimchi jjigae, dak doritang etc...yummy Mike! I love you!

## 11th week
We told Mike's parents about the news. They were shocked, happy, and supportive. Now I'm anxious to come to week 13 when the first trimester officially ends. I started working at UO Institute of Neuroscience(ION) as a researcher. Job is for mostly sitting, so I can pull it off while entertaining my brain about brain without too much stress. I needed an environment where other people are around so that I can be patient about waiting...and expecting!

[Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/N70H63D.mp4)
